---
layout: post
title:  An example
date:   2016-10-22 19:08 +0200
categories: example
cjs:
  version: v0.8
katex: true
---

This is a template for how to create a CindyJS developer's personal blog
using GitHub Pages and Jekyll.
If you start your blog by forking this template, then future improvements
to this template can be merged into your blog as well,
which makes it easier to achieve a common look to all of them.
So if you find ways to improve this, take your improvements
back to the template branch to be incorportated there.

To personalize this template after forking it,
edit `_config.yml` in the root directory to match your user name.
You'd likely want to remove this example post here,
and instead create “real” posts of your own.

To preview your blog, you need to have Ruby and RubyGems installed.
Then you can run `bundle install` (only on first run,
or `bundle update` later on to stay up to date) followed by
`bundle exec jekyll serve -b /CindyJS`.
This will serve the blog on your local machine, using a local HTTP server,
so you can preview everything before uploading it to GitHub.

You can simply embed CindyJS content into the pages,
since embedding HTML into Markdown is possible.
The YAML front matter at the head of the post can be used
to specify the CindyJS version to be used, as in the example below.
Just make sure your outermost HTML tags are not indented by 4 or more spaces,
since otherwise Markdown will see the HTML snippet as a piece of source code.

<div id="CSCanvas"></div>
<script id="csmove" type="text/x-cindyscript">
  repeat(500,i,
    w=i*pi/180*(137.508+B.x*0.5);
    p=A+(cos(w),sin(w))*0.3*sqrt(i);
    a=i;
    draw(p,size->sqrt(i)*.4,color->hue(i/34));
  );
</script>
<script type="text/javascript">
  CindyJS({
    ports: [{
      id: "CSCanvas", width: 500, height: 500,
      transform: [{visibleRect: [-10,10,10,-10]}]
    }],
    scripts: "cs*",
    geometry: [
      {name:"A", kind:"P", type:"Free", pos:[0,0]},
      {name:"B", kind:"P", type:"Free", pos:[0,9]},
    ]});
</script>

You can also use inline math line <script type="text/x-tex">x^2</script> or display math like

<script type="text/x-tex;mode=display">\frac{\mathbb R^2\setminus
\left\{\scriptstyle\begin{pmatrix}0\\0\end{pmatrix}\right\}}{\mathbb R\setminus\{0\}}</script>

in your posts.
The tool `_tools/mathify.js` can be used to convert from `$…$` and `$$…$$` notation
to `<script type="text/x-tex">…</script>` notation used in these posts.
Using scripts like this ensures that Markdown leaves the math forumlas as they are.
